Add the Contribution Guide and Review Community and Security Pages (#177)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: security.md

permalink: /security/
---

> # Security Policy

Reviewer: Is this a duplicate of the work in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/180/ ?

Author: Closed #180.

Ballerina project maintainers take security issues very seriously and all the vulnerability reports are treated with the highest priority and confidentiality.

- [Reporting a vulnerability](#reporting-a-vulnerability)
- [Handling a vulnerability](#handling-a-vulnerability)

## Reporting a vulnerability

> Ensure you are using the latest Ballerina version before you run an automated security scan or perform a penetration test against them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you are using the latest Ballerina version before you run an automated security scan or perform a penetration test against it.
```

Author: Done.

> If you have any concerns regarding the security aspects of the source code or any other resource in this repo or have uncovered a security vulnerability, we strongly encourage you to report that to our private and highly confidential security mailing list: **security@ballerina.io** first using the below key without disclosing them in any forums, sites, or other groups - public or private. 

Reviewer: Why are we removing the mailto: link? Isn't it a good practice to have them for email addresses?

Author: Added it.

> If you have any concerns regarding the security aspects of the source code or any other resource in this repo or have uncovered a security vulnerability, we strongly encourage you to report that to our private and highly confidential security mailing list: **[security@ballerina.io](mailto:security@ballerina.io)** first using the below key without disclosing them in any forums, sites, or other groups - public or private. 

Reviewer: Shall we break this into multiple sentences as in [1] for more clarity

[1] https://docs.wso2.com/display/Security/WSO2+Security+Vulnerability+Reporting+Guidelines

Author: Changed as follows:

Based on the ethics of responsible disclosure, you must only use the **security@ballerina.io** mailing list to report security vulnerabilities and any other concerns regarding the security aspects of the source code or any other resource in this repo.

**Warning:** To protect the end-user security, please do not use any other medium to report security vulnerabilities. Also, kindly refrain from disclosing the vulnerability details you come across with other individuals, in any forums, sites, or other groups - public or private before it’s mitigation actions and disclosure process are completed.

Use the following key to send secure messages to security@ballerina.io:

security@ballerina.io: 0168 DA26 2989 0DB9 4ACD 8367 E683 061E 2F85 C381 [pgp.mit.edu](https://pgp.surfnet.nl/pks/lookup?op=vindex&fingerprint=on&search=0xE683061E2F85C381)

> s0168 DA26 2989 0DB9 4ACD 8367 E683 061E 2F85 C381 pgp.mit.edu

Reviewer: What is the reason for removing the PGP server link?

Author: Added it.

> We will keep you informed of the progress towards a fix and disclosure of the vulnerability if reported issue is identified as a true positive. To protect the end-user security, these issues could be disclosed in other places only after it’s mitigation actions and disclosure process are completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will keep you informed of the progress towards a fix and disclosure of the vulnerability if the reported issue is identified as a true positive. To protect the end-user security, these issues could be disclosed in other places only after it’s mitigation actions and disclosure process are completed.
```

**Warning:** Please do not create GitHub issues for security vulnerabilities. Further, kindly refrain from sharing the vulnerability details you come across with other individuals. 

Also, use the following template when reporting vulnerabilities so that it contains all the required information and helps expedite the analysis and mitigation process.

- Vulnerable Ballerina artifacts(s) and version(s)
- Overview: High-level overview of the issue and self-assessed severity
- Description: Include the steps to reproduce
- Impact: Self-assessed impact
- Solution: Any proposed solution

## Handling a vulnerability

The below is an overview of the vulnerability handling process.

> 1. The user privately reports the vulnerability to security@ballerina.io. (The initial response time will be less than 24 hours).

Reviewer: What is the reason behind changing the process? For ex: Initial response time has increased to 24 hours from 1 hour)

Author: Changed it as per [1].

[1] https://docs.wso2.com/display/Security/WSO2+Security+Vulnerability+Reporting+Guidelines

Reviewer 2: The links highlighted by @praneesha shows process we follow for WSO2 products. 1 hour initial response is not practical for us in some rare situations (example: issues reported in IST night time might take more time).  

However, since security@ballerina.io is maintained separately, you may decide to use your own SLA here. Team may decide how to monitor the mailing list and respond to incidences. You can use WSO2 product processes described in [1] as a guideline.

Reviewer: +1 to proceed with WSO2 guidelines for now. If we need to change we can discuss later and change.

> 2. The WSO2 security team works privately with the user to fix the vulnerability and QA verifies the solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The relavant team at WSO2 fixes the vulnerability and QA verifies the solution.
```

Author: Done.

3. Apply the fix to the master branch and release a new version of the distribution if required.

> 4. The reported user is kept updated on the progress of the process. 

Reviewer 3: The first two sentences seem to be phrased in a particular manner while the last two sentences have broken away from that pattern. The first two are formed like "A does X". Better to follow the same form for the last two sentences or just not stick to a pattern at all.

Author: Changed as follows:

1. The vulnerability will be reported privately to security@ballerina.io. (The initial response time will be less than 24 hours).
2. The reported vulnerability gets fixed and the solution gets verified by the relavant teams at WSO2.
3. The fix gets applied to the master branch and a new version of the distribution gets released if required.
4. The reported user is kept updated on the progress of the process.

permalink: /security/
---

# Security Policy

Ballerina project maintainers take security issues very seriously and all the vulnerability reports are treated with the highest priority and confidentiality.

- [Reporting a vulnerability](#reporting-a-vulnerability)
- [Handling a vulnerability](#handling-a-vulnerability)

## Reporting a vulnerability

Ensure you are using the latest Ballerina version before you run an automated security scan or perform a penetration test against it.

Based on the ethics of responsible disclosure, you must only use the **security@ballerina.io** mailing list to report security vulnerabilities and any other concerns regarding the security aspects of the source code or any other resource in this repo.

**Warning:** To protect the end-user security, please do not use any other medium to report security vulnerabilities. Also, kindly refrain from disclosing the vulnerability details you come across with other individuals, in any forums, sites, or other groups - public or private before it’s mitigation actions and disclosure process are completed.

Use the following key to send secure messages to security@ballerina.io:

> security@ballerina.io: 0168 DA26 2989 0DB9 4ACD 8367 E683 061E 2F85 C381 [pgp.mit.edu](https://pgp.surfnet.nl/pks/lookup?op=vindex&fingerprint=on&search=0xE683061E2F85C381)

Reviewer: Shall we include this in a text box to highlight it?

Author: Done.
